[Music]
hi I'm Cassidy from BBC good food and
I'm going to show you how to make the
perfect crumble now you can make the
crumble with any type of fruit whether
you've got a seasonal out of fruit to
use up or you've just got some overripe
fruit you can use anything you like I'm
gonna start with apples now if you're
using a hard fruit like apples or pears
or quince you either need to cook them
beforehand or slice them really thinly
so they cook through properly in the
oven if you have any blemishes on the
fruit just make sure you cut these away
before you start slicing
I'm using Bramley apples which are quite
tart so they need a bit of sugar just
sprinkled over to sweeten them up so I'm
ready to make the topping for this you
need plain flour butter and sugar
and I'm just gonna add a pinch of salt
as well now just rub this together with
your fingertips until it looks like damp
breadcrumbs that looks great so I'm
going to skip that on top of the apples
if you want you can finish the top with
a nice design by dragging a fork over
the surface for a crunchy topping I'm
going to sprinkle over some Demerara
sugar and mix with spikes
okay now let's ready for the oven that's
plastic crumble done but if you like
your caramel topping a little bit
crunchy ah I've got a great tip for you
though we're going to cook the crumble
topping and the fruit filling separately
and this is especially great if you're
using soft fruits like berries or
peaches because they let off a lot of
juice as they're cooking so they can
make the topping quite soggy so for this
one we're going to start with the
crumble topping I'm going to combine the
flour the butter the sugar and this time
I'm gonna add some oats to the mixture
as well now just mix that together with
your fingertips until you've got a nice
breadcrumb consistency again
that looks really good don't worry if
you've got a few clumps in there that
will just make the texture really nice
so we're going to bake the crumble
topping separately on a baking sheet so
just tip it out and spread it nice and
evenly over the baking tray so I'm going
to bake that in a hot oven for about 10
minutes until it's nice and crispy and
crunchy just giving it a stir about
halfway through
while the crumble topping cooking I'm
going to cook the berries for a couple
of minutes as well with some corn flour
and sugar and this would just help to
thicken any juices which come out of the
berries as soon as the juices start to
release from the berries turn the heat
off and transfer them to your baking
dish
that looks great I'm going to transfer
it to the top of the fruit return the
crumble to the oven for about another 10
minutes just so it all comes together so
there's two easy ways to make perfect
crumbles one using hard fruits and the
other one using soft through and a
really crunchy topping serve it with
custard ice cream or cream
[Music]